They're weird, fuzzy and
in a lot of trouble.
These insects are
actually all bees, wild
ones. And they're
debatably more important
than the honeymaking
kind. People are really
worried about bees for
honeybee for granted, at
our own peril. But what
most people don't know,
honeybee numbers are
increasing worldwide.
Not just that, but the
way humans use honeybees
makes them a problem.
Putting a honeybee hive
in your backyard doesn't
help because we're saving
the wrong bees.
Animals are involved in
the pollination of 90% of
the world's flowering
plants. And when you
think of pollinators,
the honeybee probably
comes to mind. That's
because honeybees and
humans have an ancient
relationship. Bees have
been managed for
thousands of years.
There's a lot of evidence
that played an important
role also in the ancient
cultures in Egypt and
Greece, beekeeping has
always been very
widespread. Axel is the
chair of the Invertebrate
Conservation Committee at
the IUCN.
Honeybees are native to
Asia, Europe and Africa,
but nowadays are
everywhere except
Antarctica. APIs Melissa
is the most common
honeybee and the best
studied. Although there
are another ten known
species, they're general
pollinators, meaning they
will pollinate most
plants. And although
honey bees are at risk
from pests and disease,
the number of colonies
worldwide is actually
growing. According to the
FAO, managed hives have
increased worldwide by
83% since 1960. 1%
because they are always
managed by the beekeepers
and also receive
veterinary treatment and
so on, there's no risk
that they will become
extinct. But honeybees
aren't the only bees.
The general public
confounds bees with the
honeybees. This is
Isabel, a pollination
ecology researcher
specializing in urban
environments. It would be
the same situation if,
for example, you were
talking about birds. And
people think that when
you talk about birds,
you talk about chickens.
They're around 20,000
different species of wild
bees and they are the
most important wild
pollinators. They're
mostly solitary. And
unlike honey, bees are
suited to specific
plants, which makes them
much better at
pollinating. A hectare of
apples, for example,
would require tens of
thousands of honeybees to
pollinate, but only
hundreds of this wild
bee. Because osmia
cornuta is particularly
good at apple
pollination. Each
flowering plant is
strongly connected to a
pollinator that fits
accordingly to the lock
and key principle an
entomologist by training.
Sabrina is a project
manager at the Research
Institute of Organic
Agriculture. It's perfect
fit between flower and
it's selected pollinator
is the product of an
ongoing coal evolution on
for centuries that is
still uprising like the
squash bees native to
Central and South
America, they're
perfectly suited to
squash plants. They're
early risers and squash
flowers are only open
early in the morning
while the honeybees are
still asleep. Don't like
squash? How about
tomatoes, potatoes or
eggplant? These crops
also need wild
pollinators. Loud ones
like bumblebees to be
precise. Their flowers
require a vibrating buzz
to release their pollen,
something a bumblebee
perfectly provides.
Honeybees just don't have
that skill but wild bees
are in serious decline.
And this doesn't only
affect them and their
ecosystems, but our food
security as well.
Worldwide, wild bee
diversity has been
decreasing each year
since the 1990s.
Pesticides intensive
agriculture and
especially habitat loss
are mean drivers. A
recent study found that
we may have already lost
a quarter of wild bee
species. But assessment
is hard due to the lack
of global data. Various
regional estimates
suggest over 40% of wild
bee and butterfly species
are threatened. Farmers
are already noticing a
difference. When they
walked along, everything
was full of pollinators.
And nowadays it's more
like everything is calmed
down and nobody knows
where they are. This loss
of diversity can cause
knock on effects on whole
ecosystems. Less
pollinator diversity
means fewer wild plants.
This can hurt animals
that use them for food or
shelter. And it's also
bad for the future of our
food.
The yield of filtered to
stem is higher when there
are visits by variety of
clean eaters compared to
when they are visited by
only honeybees. Remember
Osmia Cornucha, the apple
specialist? Most of the
planation of apple trees
is performed by several
species of wild bees. So
if you don't get this
wild bees, you get apples
that would be reduced.
US. Crops are already
producing less due to
wild pollinator decline.
And globally, we're
planting more and more of
the crops that require
animal pollination, like
fruits, vegetables and
oil seeds. The increase
in honeybees hasn't kept
up. This means pollinator
dependence has increased
around 70% since 1061.
And combined with the
decline in wild
pollinators, means an
emergency for the global
food supply. This is
especially true in
countries with many large
monocultures that destroy
wild pollinator habitats
like China and the United
States. Not only that,
the way we use honeybees
actually makes them a
part of the problem.
According to the American
Beekeeping Federation,
two thirds of the 2.7
million honeybee colonies
in the US. Are used for
pollination. Most go to
the almond fields in
California, where 80% of
the world's almonds come
from. Then bees rotate
around the country to
pollinate other crops.
Nowhere else in the world
uses honey bees for
pollination like the US.
But the trend is growing
in Europe too, as wild
pollinators disappear.
Unfortunately, it's not
so good for the
honeybees. They can be
exposed to pesticides
from the crops or catch
diseases from the other
colonies. And these
honeybees are also a
threat to wild ones.
Within a honeybee hive,
you have tens of
thousands of individuals
that need a lot of food.
There will need most of
the floral resources,
and there will not be
enough left for the other
polynesian species. If
you have many bees, then
they will probably
outcompete the native.
Speed is very fast.
Honeybees can also spread
disease to wild bees. An
infected bee can leave
some virus on a flower to
be picked up by the next
wild bee that visits it's
not the honeybees fault.
But save the bees
definitely does not mean
adding more into the
environment. There have
been a lot of people that
thought that they could
only save the bees when
having their own beehives
in the backyard. And
that's the wrong way to
conserve pollinators. So
what's the right way?
Industrial agriculture is
the biggest threat to all
bees. It uses harmful
chemicals and relies on
huge fields of one crop.
Ideally, we change our
whole food system. But on
a personal level,
supporting small scale,
sustainable farmers, if
viable, also supports
divorced habitats. For
wild bees, even more can
be done with a backyard,
like leaving native
plants alone or planting
new ones. Open sunny
ground or dead logs also
make great breeding spots
for wild bees. But most
of all, they need more
attention. We need
honeybees that aren't in
danger of losing them.
With wild bees, it's
another story.
Did you have any idea why
bees were that cool? I am
in love with Ozmia
Cornuta. That applebee.
It's so cute. Anyway,
don't forget to like the
video and subscribe to
our channel. We've got
new ones every Friday.